1941. Hayao Miyazaki was born on January 5th of 1941, during the second World War. His father was the director of an aircraft parts manufacturing company, which Miyazaki admitted later in life that he felt guilty over his family's profiting from the war and their subsequent affluent lifestyle. During High School he decided to pursue a manga artist career.
1963, Miyazaki graduated from university with a degree in economics and politics and got his first job at an animation studio called Toei Animation.
1968, Miyazaki graduated from university with a degree in economics and politics and got his first job at an animation studio called Toei Animation. He was a leader in a labor dispute soon after his arrival, and became chief secretary of Toei's labor union in 1964.
1979, Miyazaki's career as a director debuted when he was hired to make a movie adaptation of the popular anime and manga Lupin the III, the movie was called The Castle of Cagliostro.
1982, In the early 80s two of Miyazaki's movie ideas turned out unsuccessful, he eventually ended up signing a contract with one of the companies that let's him turn his sketches and ideas into a manga for the magazine, as long as they are never made into a movie adaptation. He then ended up creating Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind which ran from 1982 to 1994.
1984, Following the success of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, a movie adaptation directed by Miyazaki began production. 
Miyazaki encountered many difficulties, as he only had 16 chapters of the manga to work with. 
Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind was a huge success and received critical acclaim from film critics. 
The film is frequently ranked among the best animated films in Japan, and is seen by critics as a seminal influence on the development of anime.
1985, Miyazaki, Takahata, Tokuma and Suzuki who all worked together in the production of Nausicaä, ended up banding together and founded animation production company Studio Ghibli.
1986, Studio Ghibli's first movie, Laputa: Castle in the Sky, was released. The movie was heavily inspired by Greek architecture and other European urbanistic styles, Miyazaki was also inspired by a Welsh mining town, which he admired the miners' dedication to their work and community.
1988, My Neighbor Totoro, Miyazaki's second movie at Studio Ghibli, was released. My Neighbor Totoro features the theme of the relationship between the environment and humanity-a contrast to Nausicaä, which emphasizes technology's negative effect on nature. The film was commercially unsuccessful at the box office, though merchandising was successful, and it received critical acclaim.
1997, Upon its premiere on July 12, 1997, Princess Mononoke was critically acclaimed, becoming the first animated film to win the Japan Academy Prize for Picture of the Year. The film was also commercially successful and became the highest-grossing film ever in Japan for several months. It was also seen as the introduction of Studio Ghibli to global markets.
2001, Miyazaki's next film was conceived while on vacation at a mountain cabin with his family and five young girls who were family friends. Miyazaki realised that he had not created a film for ten-year-old girls, and set out to do so. He read shōjo manga magazines like Nakayoshi and Ribon for inspiration, but felt they only offered subjects on "crushes and romance", which is not what the girls "held dear in their hearts". He decided to produce the film about a female heroine whom they could look up to. Spirited Away was released. It won the Academy Awards for Best Animated Feature and it is still to this day the highest grossing movie of all time in Japan.
2002 to Present, Miyazaki worked on several animated movies such as Howls M*oving Castle, Ponyo and The Wind Rises. He retired in 2013 and it's only focusing in creating shorts films and manga.


Trivia